In the previous video, we already
learn about what is computer network.
The point is, that computer network is
connection between two or more computer
that can share information each others.
Pay attention to my sentences, I say
two or more computers. This is means that we can
build computer network with only two computers.
For example, here we have two
computers that connected using cable.
In the computer network, the
cable that we usually use
is UTP cable. So this is UTP cable
that we use to connecting these two computers.
If you never see UTP cable yet, here is
the example. This blue cable is UTP cable.
And in the end of each cable, we will have RJ45 like this. So we have RJ45 here,
and in the another end, we also have RJ45. This
is small, but we can see here that we have RJ45.
This RJ45 will be connected to LAN port in the computer
If you see on your computer or laptop,
you may be have a LAN port like this.
So in the PC 1 will be connected to LAN port and
in the PC 2 also will be connected to the LAN port.
Now PC 1 and PC 2 already connected using UTP cable,
this is mean that we already have computer network
between these two PC. So now, PC 1 and PC 2 can
share information each others like I show you in
the previous video. Now, if we want to share data
between these two PC, we don’t need flashdisk
anymore, but we can use computer network!
May be some of you have a question, the newest
laptops now usually don’t have LAN port like this anymore,
how we can connect this laptop which
don’t have LAN port to the computer network?
If the laptop or computer don’t have LAN port,
we can use USB to LAN converter like this.
The USB will be connected to our laptop,
and the LAN port will be connected to UTP cable.
This is how we can connecting our laptop which
don’t have LAN port to the computer network.
Or we also can use wireless to connecting
our laptop to the computer network.
I think all of laptop must be
have a wireless adapter on it,
so we can use it to connecting the
laptop to the computer network.
The simplest example of computer
network that built using wireless
is when you use bluetooth to
connecting two smartphones.
For example here we have smartphone 1, and
we want to share photo to the smartphone 2,
So we can connecting these two smartphones
using bluetooth, after that we can share
photo from smartphone 1 to smartphone 2. This
is also the example of computer network.
Until now, we understand that to build a
computer network, we can use wired or wireless.
If we use wired, we will need UTP Cable,
RJ45, and LAN port, and if we use wireless,
we just need to have a
wireless adapter on the laptop.
Okay I think enough for this video. In the next
video, we are going to learn about IP Address.
Thank you for watching and
see you on the next video!